How to use git for beginners (#48)
Codecademy/ugc: content/francineblanc/how-to-use-git-for-beginners.md

---
Title: "How To Use Git For Beginners"
Description: "Beginner friendly content for using Git"
Categories:
  - "computer-science"
  - "developer-tools"
Tags:
  - "Git"
  - "GitHub"
CatalogContent:
  - "learn-git"
  - "learn-the-command-line"
  - "paths/computer-science"
---
[the Git Website]: https://git-scm.com/downloads
[Add]: https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/add
[Reset]: https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/reset
[here]: https://www.theserverside.com/feature/Why-GitHub-renamed-its-master-branch-to-main
[GitHub]: https://github.com/

_**Prerequisites:** the Command Line_

## Introduction

> Git is a version control system used for tracking changes to files over a period of time. Understanding Git is a fundamental skill for all developers as it is the modern standard in the software development industry for tracking and coordinating work within a dev team.

Author: Thank you @Dusch4593, I have done this - the links are at the top of the file for consistency

## Getting Started

> The easiest way to get started with using Git is to download and install the software following the instructions on [the Git Website] for your operating system. Once installed run the command below from a terminal (for Mac and Linux) or command prompt (for Windows) to check that installation was successful:

Author: I think I've now made these updates @Dusch4593

```
git --version
``` 

> If Git has been successfully installed, the terminal/command prompt should output the current version of Git, which at the time of writing was ```2.35.3```.

Author: Have gone for the first option!

## Git Workflow
Before jumping in to using Git, it will be helpful to have an overview of a straightforward Git workflow. 

A Git project generally has:

> - **A Working Directory** - the project folder on your computer where files are created, edited and deleted i.e. where work is actually done.

Author: I'd be grateful if you could check I've done the bolding/emphasis correctly now @Dusch4593

- **A Staging Area** - contains the changes made to files in the Working Directory ready to be committed.

> - **A Repository** - also known as the repo, the place where changes are saved by Git as different versions of the project. There will always be a local repo but there will also often be a remote repository hosted by a provider such as GitHub, GitLab or Bitbucket.

Author: Thank you @yangc95 and @Dusch4593. I have made these suggested changes

A typical Git workflow involves:

1. Initialising Git in the Working Directory;
2. Working on files in the Working Directory, then adding these to the Staging Area;
3. Commmiting the changes from the Staging Area into the Repository.

Let's unpack each of these steps.

## Initialising Git
To turn a Working Directory into a Git project, navigate to the directory in the terminal/command prompt and run the following command:
```
git init
```

> This initialises a Git repository (which is just a name for a special folder called ```.git``` inside a project) on your local machine, and is required in order for Git to start tracking changes. This step might look something like this:

Author: Sorry, am in the UK!

![git-init](git-init.png)

> When ```git init``` is run inside the Git Tutorial folder, an empty Git repository is created inside of that directory. The repository is currently empty because Git doesn't know at this point which files it should track. Any untracked files can be viewed using the command:

Author: Thank you, I have done this

### .gitignore
The ```.gitignore``` file is a special file which generally lives in the root of the Working Directory. It contains a list of files and/or directories which a developer has added that Git should not track, and so will not be committed. These files may be log files, or particular modules in a project that shouldn't be tracked, or (for Mac users) files like ```.DS_Store```. Make sure to try and remember to add files which should not be tracked ***before*** they are committed.

Now, with the ```.gitignore file``` made and the ```.DS_Store``` file added, running ```git status``` in the terminal shows the following output:

![git-status-untracked-with-gitignore](git-status-untracked-with-ignore.png)

## Making Changes and Adding Files to the Staging Area
In order for Git to start tracking changes, files need to be added to the Staging Area. This can be done with the command:

> ```

Author: @yangc95 I've used bash throughout

git add <filename>
```
where filename is the name and extension of the file to be added to the staging area. Multiple files can also be added with the syntax:

```
git add <filename1> <filename2> <filename3>
```

> If all files in the Working Directory need to be tracked, the syntax
> 
> ```
> git add .
> ```
> can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If all files in the working directory need to be tracked, this syntax can be used:

```bash
git add .
```
```

This is another command we can use: `git add -A`. Also for `git add .`, this should be run at the root directory 👍

Once a file has been added, ```git status``` can be run in the terminal/command prompt to check that the file is in the Staging Area. Git will show the changed files to be committed in <span style="color:green">green</span> text like so:

![git-status-untracked-with-gitignore](git-add-and-status.png)

You can find out more about the additional extensions to ```git add``` in the [Add] section of the Codecademy Docs for Git.

### Oops! I didn't want to add that!
There may be occasions where a file has been incorrectly added to the Staging Area. This can be undone with the command ```git reset <filename>```. This will not affect the changes done to the file in any way, it will simply remove it from the staging area. 

In the case where all files needs to be unstaged, the command ```git reset``` can be run without adding further arguments.

> Note that as of ```git version 2.24``` there is alternative syntax to unstage files, which is ```git restore --staged <filename>``` where ```filename``` is the name of the file to be unstaged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As of version 2.24, there is alternative syntax for unstaging files in Git, which is ```git restore --staged <filename>``` where ```filename``` is the name of the file to be unstaged.
```

For the following latter part of this text:

> which is ```git restore --staged <filename>``` where ```filename``` is the name of the file to be unstaged

I would break up in the following way (and use \```pseudo for the snippet):

As of version 2.24, there is alternative syntax for unstaging files in Git:

```pseudo
git restore --staged <filename>
```

The `<filename>` is the name of the file to be unstaged.

## Committing Changes

> Committing is generally the last step of the Git workflow and is generally thought of being a snapshot of a project at a particular time. In this stage, changes in the Staging Area are saved inside the local repository, which is achieved with the command ```git commit -m``` followed by a space and a short message explaining the commit in quotes, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Committing is generally the last step of the Git workflow and is generally thought of as being a snapshot of a project at a particular time. In this stage, changes in the staging area are saved inside the local repository, which is achieved with the command `git commit -m` followed by a space and a short message explaining the commit in quotes. For example:

```

```
git commit -m "Add title and description to intro file"
```

> There are general conventions for writing a commit message including making sure they are no more than 50 characters long and writing them in the imperative or present tense. Messages should always be clear and confirm what the change made is so that others can easily see what has changed. 

Reviewer 2: For what it's worth, there is a resource called [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) that might be a good fit to link here:

```suggestion
There are general [conventions](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) for writing a commit message including:

- Making sure they are no more than 50 characters long.
- Writing them in the imperative or present tense.

Messages should always be clear and informative to others who may go back to confirm what changes were made.
```

Committing is an important step in the Git workflow, as once a change has been committed, it can be recalled at a later date or the project can be rewound to that particular version. Commit history can be viewed with ```git log```, which will display a list of commits in chronological order (the most recent commits being at the top), along with information such as the author of the commit, the date and time of the commit and the commit message.

### Oops! I didn't want to commit that!

> In the situation where the last commit needs to be undone, the ```git reset``` command can again be used, wtih some modifications. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In the situation where the last commit needs to be undone, the `git reset` command can again be used, with some modifications. 
```

Reviewer: 💁‍♀️ Something I like to do to quickly check for typos/grammer, is to pop my entire article into Grammarly, and make edits as needed to the file through my text editor or IDE

Author: I have run the article through Grammarly and have updated the spelling/grammar as suggested by the program

A new branch can be made with the following command:
```
git branch <name-of-new-branch>
```
To switch over to the new branch in a project the command:
```
git checkout <name-of-the-branch>
```
is used. These two steps can however be neatly combined into one using:
```
git checkout -b <name-of-new-branch>
```
Once on a new branch, files in the Working Directory can be worked on as usual, and changes can be added and committed. Those changes will however only be committed to the current branch and will not affect anything on ```main```.

### Merging
Merging combines multiple commits into one history, and is generally used to join or combine two branches. So, when ready for work on a branch to be merged into ```main```, the command ```git merge branch-name``` is used, where ```branch-name``` is the name of the branch to be merged into the ```main``` branch. This command is most often used when working on a project with others (more on this below).

Once a branch has been merged, it is no longer needed so can be deleted with:

```
git branch -d <branch-name>
``` 

> This will though only delete the branch once it has been merged into ```main```. Replacing the ```-d``` flag with ```-D``` will delete the branch even if it hasn't been merged with ```main```.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

This will only delete the branch once it has been merged into the `main` branch. Replacing the `-d` flag with `-D` will force-delete the branch.
```

## Collaboration
When collaborating with others on a project, it is generally the case that a shared remote Git repository will exist so that multiple people can work on the same project from different locations. There are a wide range of providers of remote repositories but the most popular and well-known is [GitHub].

> ### Git != GitHub

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Git and GitHub
```

Again, punctuation shouldn't be used in the headers (with the exception of the question mark `?`).

> When starting out, it is easy to get confused between Git and GitHub but they are not the same. Git is a version control tool whereas GitHub is an onlne hosting service for Git repositories that has tools which integrate with Git. Git does not require GitHub to work and a remote repository is not needed for using Git however, when working with others on a project, GitHub (and any similar provider) makes doing so much easier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Git is a version control tool whereas GitHub is an online hosting service for Git repositories. While not required to work with Git, remote repo providers like GitHub is ideal for working with others on a project.
```

### Workflow

> When working with others, the general workflow is as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

When working with others, the following steps are generally taken:

```

> 1. **Create a Remote Repository** - where a remote repo does not already exist, one is generally created by one of the people working on the project using a hosting provider;

Reviewer 2: For these steps, I would reformat by omitting the emphasis and dashes:

```suggestion
1. Create a remote repo with a provider like GitHub.
```

Reviewer 2: Could we make similar changes to the remaining steps?

2. **Pull Changes to a Local Repo** - combines changes from the Remote Repo into a local branch
3. **Copy/Clone the Remote Repository to a Local Repo** - this replicates and copies everything in the remote repository to a local copy of the Git project.
4. **Create a new Local Branch** - a new branch will generally be made, forked from ```main```, and the new feature or fix will be worked on;
5. **Add and Commit Changes** - the normal Git workflow is followed for adding and committing changes;
6. **Push Changes to the Remote and Create a Pull Request** - the changes made on the local branch are pushed up to the remote branch to be reviewed by team members;
7. **Merge the Local Branch with Main** - once the changes have been approved by team members, the local branch is merged into the main branch.

Let's take a closer look at steps 2 and 5.

> ### Fetching/Merging/Pulling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Updating Branches
```

> To make sure the local repo is up to date with the remote, changes need to be fetched and merged from the remote and integrated into the local branch. This can be done in two stages using ```git fetch``` and ```git merge``` or in one step using ```git pull```.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To keep the local repo up to date with the remote repo, changes can be fetched and merged from the remote and integrated into the local branch. This can be done in two stages using `git fetch` and `git merge` or in one step using `git pull`.
```

```git fetch``` downloads files and commits from a remote repository into the local repo. It is used to see what changes have been made to the remote before they are merged into the local repository.

Fetching all branches from the remote can be achieved with ```git fetch <remote-name>```.

Alternatively, a specific branch can be fetched with ```git fetch <remote-name><branch-name>```.

Lastly, all registered remotes and their associated branches can be achieved with ```git fetch --all```.

```git fetch``` does not automatically merge changes made in the remote repository to the local repo, so is useful in cases where code needs to be reviewed before being locally merged. In order to merge changes into the local repo, the usual ```git merge``` command is required.

The ```git fetch <remote>``` and ```git merge origin <local-branch>``` command is combined as one into the ```git pull``` command, which automatically fetches and merges changes from a remote into the local branch. ```git pull``` can be run as a standalone command or with options such as ```git pull <remote-name>``` which will fetch and merge a specified remote with the local branch.

> It is important to form a habit of fetching and merging or pulling when working in a team to make sure the codebase being worked on locally is always up to date with the remote.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is important to keep a habit of updating the local repo of a codebase being remotely worked on with others in a team. This includes fetching and merging or pulling changes from the remote branch.

It is important to form a habit of fetching and merging or pulling when working in a team to make sure the codebase being worked on locally is always up to date with the remote.
```

### Pushing
When collaborating on a project, it is often the case that to (amongst other reasons) prevent broken code from being added to the main development branch and/or to ensure code is correctly formatted and follows whatever code conventions have been set by the team, those who have not been working on the new feature or fix will be asked to review the code. 

Code reviews are an important part of quality assurance in software development and not only helps protect against broken code from being mistakenly included in a codebase but also helps share knowledge amongst a team and can help develop the skills of both the reviewer and author.

One of the advantages of creating branches, rather than working off ```main``` is that any changes made to that branch do not affect the work of any other developers in the team. When a branch is pushed up to the remote, the team members can also take the time to review the code properly without needing to worry that there may be broken code included in ```main```.

To push code to the remote repo, the ```git push``` command is used as follows:
```

> git push <name-of-remote-branch><local-branch-name>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
git push <remote-branch-name><local-branch-name>
```

Not sure but wouldn't we also need a `<remote>` as well?

```
git push <remote> <remote-branch-name>:<local-branch-name>
```

Author: I didn't think so @Dusch4593 ? The syntax is `git push <remote><local>` I thought? But I am prepared to be wrong :)

Reviewer 2: Hmmm I believe I see what's being done here 😄 But I wonder if there should at least be a single space between `<remote>` and `<local>`?

Pseudo:
```
git push <remote> <local>
```

Actual:
```
git push origin my-branch
```

Author: @Dusch4593 yes you're absolutely correct! I have updated this now.

```
This command pushes the local branch, along with all of the changes which have been committed to that branch, to the remote destination repository. If the remote branch does not already exist, one will be automatically created with the name of the local branch. An alternative syntax to this is:
```
git push origin <local-branch-name>
```

> This also pushes the current local branch to a remote branch of the same name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This also pushes the current local branch to a remote branch of the same name.

### Pull Requests
```

> Once pushed, a pull request (sometimes called a merge request) can be created, which is generally a request to merge a branch into ```main```. Although the command line has been used throughout this article, there are some cases where using a GUI (Graphical User Interface) can be easier. This is definitely the case when creating a pull request, which can be done through the GUI of all of the major hosting services. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once pushed, a pull request (sometimes called a merge request or "PR") can be created. PRs are generally requests for merging changes into the `main` branch of the remote repo. Although the command line has been used throughout this article, there are some cases where using the GUI (Graphical User Interface) of GitHub is another option. This is definitely the case when creating a PR, which can be done through the GUI of all of the major hosting services. 
```

> After the pull request has been made, other team members can review the code and make suggested changes. Any changes required can be made locally and committed with the usual ```add/commit``` commands and pushed to the remote as described above. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the PR is created, other team members can review the code and make suggested changes. Any requested changes can be made with either of the following methods:

- They can be made locally and committed/pushed to the remote branch with the usual `add/commit` commands as described above.
- If direct changes to the files are suggested, they can be made and committed to the remote repo from within the GUI of the hosting provider.
```

## Conclusion

> In this article, we have looked at how to create a new Git project and how to add and commit changes. We have also looked at important concepts, like Git branching and have also looked at a straightforward workflow for collaborating on projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

In this article, we learned to use Git including how to add and commit changes. We also explored important Git concepts like branching and workflows. Lastly, we looked at a straightforward GitHub workflow for collaborating with others on projects.
```

> Git can be quite the minefield for beginners but as is the case when learning any new subject, it just needs time, practice and patience to get used to. As Git is the industry standard for version control, it is important as a beginner to get used to using Git and for those self-taught programmers amongst us, using hosting providers such as GitHub, which is an important tool not just for showcasing projects we have worked on but for showing an understanding of how Git works.

Reviewer 2: I would generally avoid idioms like "quite the minefield" since some readers may be confused by it. Maybe we could rephrase with the following:

```suggestion
Learning to use Git is similar to learning a new programming language and can be improved with time, practice, and patience. Since GitHub and Git are among the industry standards for collaboration and version control, respectively, they are important for beginners to get familiar with.
```

---
Title: "How To Use Git for Beginners"
Description: "Beginner friendly content for using Git."
Categories:
  - "computer-science"
  - "developer-tools"
Tags:
  - "Git"
  - "GitHub"
CatalogContent:
  - "learn-git"
  - "learn-the-command-line"
  - "paths/computer-science"
---
[Git]: https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git
[following the instructions]: https://git-scm.com/downloads
[`git add`]: https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/add
[`git reset`]: https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/reset

> [here]: https://www.theserverside.com/feature/Why-GitHub-renamed-its-master-branch-to-main

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[here]: https://github.com/github/renaming/blob/main/README.md
[Branches]: https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/branch
```

In the case where all files need to be unstaged, the command [`git reset`] can be run without adding further arguments.

As of version 2.24, there is an alternative syntax for unstaging files in Git: 

```pseudo
git restore --staged <filename>
``` 

The `<filename>` is the name of the file to be unstaged.

## Committing changes

Committing is generally the last step of the Git workflow and is generally thought of as being a snapshot of a project at a particular time. In this stage, changes in the staging area are saved inside the local repo, which is achieved with the command `git commit -m` followed by a space and a short message explaining the commit in quotes. For example:

```bash
git commit -m "Add title and description to intro file"
```

There are general [conventions] for writing a commit message including: 
- Making sure they are no more than 50 characters long.
- Writing them in the imperative or present tense. 

Messages should always be clear and informative to others who may go back to confirm what changes were made.

> Committing is an important step in the Git workflow, as once a change has been committed, it can be recalled at a later date or the project can be rewound to that particular version. Commit history can be viewed with `git log`, which will display a list of commits in chronological order (the most recent commits being at the top), along with information such as the author of the commit, the date and time of the commit and the commit message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A commit history can be viewed with `git log`, which will display a list of commits in chronological order (starting with the most recent), along with information such as:

- The author of the commit.
- The date and time.
- The commit message.
```

### Undoing a commit

In the situation where the last commit needs to be undone, the `git reset` command can again be used, with some modifications. 

> The current commit is called the `HEAD` commit, which is generally the most recently made commit. To find out which commit this is, the command `git show HEAD` can be executed in the terminal. This will display information about the most recent commit, including a unique 40 character SHA hash, which Git uses like an id to identify revisions in the repo.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Generally, the most recently made commit on the current branch is called the `HEAD` commit. To find out which commit this is, the command `git show HEAD` can be executed in the terminal. This will display information about the most recent commit, including a unique 40 character SHA hash, which Git uses like an id to identify revisions in the repo.
```

I would suggest `git log` instead of `git show` for this article so that we aren't introducing too many new commands/concepts for the reader(s). The `git log` also displays the `HEAD` commit pointer to the currently checkout branch while also showing the SHA hash.

![Uploading Screen Shot 2022-04-28 at 8.05.56 AM.png…]()

To undo the immediately previous commit, the command `git reset --soft HEAD~1` can be run, which will rewind the current `HEAD` commit to the immediately previous commit. The `--soft` flag ensures that any changes made to the files are preserved.

> If the rewind needs to go beyond the most recent commit, the command `git reset SHA`, where `SHA` is the first 7 characters of the SHA of the commit, can be used. Note that the SHA of all previous commits can be viewed using `git log`.

Reviewer 2: For these lines, I would place a \```bash snippet between them where it contains the `git reset` command:

To undo the direct previous commit, the following command can be run:

```bash
git reset --soft HEAD~1
```

This will repoint the current `HEAD` commit to the one immediately before it. If we need to go beyond the most recent commit, we can run `git reset SHA`, where `SHA` is the first 7 characters of the commit hash.

Reviewer 2: > Note that the SHA of all previous commits can be viewed using `git log`.

This info should be incorporated somewhere in line # 157.

> ## Git branching

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

## Git branching
```

> Previously, the output from running `git status` referred to being on `branch main`. Branches are a core feature in Git. They allow for new updates and features to be developed and tested without disrupting the `main` branch of the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Branches] are a core feature in Git. They allow for new updates and features to be developed and tested without disrupting the `main` branch of the project. Previously, the output from running `git status` referred to being on `branch main`. 
```

> The first branch to be aware of is the `HEAD` branch, which is the currently active branch. So, the `main` branch referenced above was the currently active branch and in GitHub is the name of the default branch. In Git, the default branch name is `master`, which was also originally the case in GitHub however this was renamed for the reasons outlined [here]. The main take away though is that both `master` and `main` are used as default branch names.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `main` branch usually refers to the default branch that serves as the base of a project. In Git, the default branch name is `master`, which was also originally the case in GitHub. However this was renamed in GitHub for the reasons outlined [here]. The main take away though is that both `master` and `main` are used as default branch names.
```

I would change the link for `[here]` to point to this `README.md` about the change from `master` to `main` (as told by GitHub themselves): https://github.com/github/renaming/blob/main/README.md

The idea of Git branches is that different branches can be created and worked on, and changes can be merged into the `main` branch. Branches are in effect an independent line for the adding/staging/committing process, forked from the `main` branch. Once on a branch, commits are recorded in that branch's history and when ready a branch (including the changes made on that branch) can be merged i.e. combined into `main`.

A new branch can be made with the following command:

```pseudo
git branch <name-of-new-branch>
```

> To switch over to the new branch in a project the command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Switching between branches can be done with the `git checkout` command:
```

```pseudo
git checkout <name-of-the-branch>
```

> is used. These two steps can however be neatly combined into one using:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is also possible to create and switch into a new branch with one command:
```

```pseudo
git checkout -b <name-of-new-branch>
```

Once on a new branch, files in the working directory can be worked on as usual, and changes can be added and committed. Those changes will however only be committed to the current branch and will not affect anything on `main`.

### Merging

Merging combines multiple commits into one history and is generally used to join or combine two branches. So, when ready for work on a branch to be merged into `main`, the command `git merge branch-name` is used, where `branch-name` is the name of the branch to be merged into the `main` branch. This command is most often used when working on a project with others (more on this below).

Once a branch has been merged, it is no longer needed so can be deleted with:

```pseudo
git branch -d <branch-name>
``` 

This will only delete the branch once it has been merged into the `main` branch. Replacing the `-d` flag with `-D` will force-delete the branch.

## Collaboration

> When collaborating with others on a project, it is generally the case that a shared remote Git repo will exist so that multiple people can work on the same project from different locations. There is a wide range of providers of remote repositories but the most popular and well-known is [GitHub].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When collaborating with others on a project, it is generally the case that a shared remote Git repo will exist so that multiple people can work on the same project from different locations. Today, there is a wide range of providers of remote repos.
```

> ### Git and GitHub

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### GitHub
```

> [Git] is a version control system used for tracking changes to files over a period of time. Understanding Git is a fundamental skill for all developers as it is an industry-standard for software development within a team.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the most popular and well-known providers is [GitHub]. It utilizes Git version control for project creation and collaboration between teams. Using GitHub can feel like a skill in and of itself.
```

---
Title: "How To Use Git for Beginners"
Description: "Beginner friendly content for using Git."
Categories:
  - "computer-science"
  - "developer-tools"
Tags:
  - "Git"
  - "GitHub"
CatalogContent:
  - "learn-git"
  - "learn-the-command-line"
  - "paths/computer-science"
---
[Git]: https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git
[terminal]: https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/terminal
[the Git Website]: https://git-scm.com/downloads
[Add]: https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/add

> [Reset]: https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/reset

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`git reset`]: https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/reset
```

[here]: https://www.theserverside.com/feature/Why-GitHub-renamed-its-master-branch-to-main
[GitHub]: https://github.com/
[conventions]: https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/

_**Prerequisites:** the Command Line_

## Introduction

[Git] is a version control system used for tracking changes to files over a period of time. Understanding Git is a fundamental skill for all developers as it is the modern standard in the software development industry for tracking and coordinating work within a dev team.

## Getting started

To get started with using Git, we must first download and install the software by following the instructions on [the Git Website] according to our operating system. Once installed, we can run the command below on a [terminal] (for Mac and Linux) or command prompt (for Windows) to check that installation was successful:

```
git --version
git version 2.35.3
```
## Git workflow

Before jumping in to using Git, it will be helpful to have an overview of a straightforward Git workflow. 

A Git project generally has:

- A working directory - the project folder on a computer where files are created, edited, and deleted. This is where work is actually done.

> - A staging area - contains the changes made to files in the working directory ready to be committed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A staging area that contains the changes made to files in the working directory ready to be committed.
```

Now, with the **.gitignore file** made and the **.DS_Store** file added, running `git status` in the terminal shows the following output:

![git-status-untracked-with-gitignore](git-status-untracked-with-ignore.png)

## Updating the staging area

In order for Git to start tracking changes, files need to be added to the staging area. This can be done with the command:

```bash
git add <filename>
```

The `<filename>` is the name and extension of the file to be added to the staging area. Multiple files can also be added by name with the following syntax:

```bash
git add <filename1> <filename2> <filename3>
```

If all files in the working directory need to be tracked, this syntax can be used, which should be run at the root directory:

```bash
git add .
```

Another command we can use to stage all changes is:

```bash
git add -A
```

Once a file has been added, `git status` can be run in the terminal/command prompt to check that the file is in the staging area. Git will show the changed files to be committed in <span style="color:green">green</span> text like so:

![git-status-untracked-with-gitignore](git-add-and-status.png)

> More about the additional extensions to `git add` can be found in the [Add] section of the Codecademy Docs for Git.

Reviewer 2: I would just embed the Docs entry link into the first mention of `git add` and delete this line.

> ### Oops! I didn't want to add that!

Reviewer 2: Can we rename this header with the following changes?

* Five words or less
* No punctuation except if header posed as question
